Hello, and welcome.
In this video, I will explain my Enterprise-Grade SaaS Management Platform project.
In this project, I utilized Python and the Django framework to develop a management portal.
I adopted a monolith-first architecture for the backend to facilitate rapid and agile frontend development.
While microservices are typically preferred for large-scale applications, starting with a well-structured monolith is the ideal approach for the initial stages of a complex system.
It establishes a working foundation, making the eventual transition to microservices much smoother.
But before diving into the project details, let me briefly introduce myself.
I am Muhammad Husain Aboutalebi.
I hold a degree in Mechanical Engineering from Amirkabir University of Technology (Tehran Polytechnic), but I have never let a paper degree define my limits.
Driven by a deep passion for technology, I am a self-taught, multidisciplinary engineer.
I have years of hands-on experience programming across various languages and frameworks to build end-to-end software solutions.
Additionally, my expertise includes crafting intuitive UI/UX designs and developing artificial intelligence models using machine learning, deep learning, and reinforcement learning.
First, to demonstrate the backend, let me activate the Python virtual environment and start the local server.
Next, I’ll open the browser and navigate to the backend’s local URL.
As you can see, the portal requires authentication to verify permissions before granting access.
I’ve built the portal with three display modes—light, dark, and system—to enhance usability.
Now, I’ll enter my email and password.
The first view in the portal is the user dashboard.
This layout is dynamic, adapting to the specific roles and permissions defined by administrators.
The primary goal is to provide a high-level overview of all data models.
Since the backend handles diverse modules—such as dating, e-commerce, fitness tracking, and a library—this dashboard balances comprehensive reporting with a user-friendly experience.
To verify that the frontend portal is actively communicating with the backend, let’s monitor the logs on the local development server.
Navigating between modules in the portal is seamless. Clicking a module in the left sidebar instantly reveals its associated data models.
Sorting, filtering, and searching through model records—such as user accounts—is straightforward and intuitive.
You can also add new users by simply clicking the plus button. Overall, the portal provides a complete set of CRUD operations, putting all necessary data interactions right at your fingertips.
The OTP, or One-Time Password, model stores the codes used to verify user authentication.
These verification codes can be dispatched by either our current monolith-first backend or a dedicated microservice.
The next module in the backend is the REST API. First, I’ll navigate to the API documentation.
On the left, there is a sidebar listing all available APIs. I’ve grouped the endpoints by feature, following Domain-Driven Design principles.
On the right, you’ll find the interactive section to test the API calls.
There are several configuration options available to further customize the API interface.
You can download the API documentation in both JSON and YAML formats.
To enhance the user experience, the interface supports seamless toggling between light and dark themes.
In the left sidebar, expanding a category reveals its grouped endpoints and their HTTP methods.
Selecting an endpoint opens its full details and an interactive request console in the right-hand panel.
As your API grows or spans multiple versions, you can easily search across all endpoints and descriptions.
Simply click the search field in the left sidebar, type a keyword, and select your result.
To test the API in real time, simply select an endpoint from the left sidebar and click the ‘Test Request’ button.
The interface provides everything you need to consume the endpoint correctly, including required fields, expected responses, and ready-to-use client code snippets for languages like Python and C#.
You can also use the quick search feature directly within the test console. This greatly improves usability and speeds up your testing workflow.
To simplify the testing process, you can use filters to control exactly what is displayed in the interface.
Because some backend endpoints require authentication, you can set a Bearer token directly in the interface to test protected requests.
You can also change the API code snippets to match your client-side language, such as Python, C#, or Dart.